---
title: "Low cervical vertebral CT value increased early subsidence of titanium mesh cage after anterior cervical corpectomy and fusion"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/Low cervical vertebral CT value increased early subsidence of titanium mesh cage after anterior cervical corpectomy and fusion
date: 2022-06-16
---
Wang Z, Mei J, Feng X, Deng C, Tian X,** Lv J**, Sun L. J Orthop Surg Res. 2022 Jul 16;17(1):355. doi: 10.1186/s13018-022-03239-6. PMID: 35842647; PMCID: PMC9287865. 
**Study design**: This study was a retrospective review. **Objective**: To study the predictive effect of Hounsfield units (HU) value in the cervical vertebral body derived from computed tomography (CT) on the early titanium mesh cage (TMC) subsidence after anterior cervical corpectomy and fusion (ACCF).**Methods**: This retrospective study was conducted on patients who underwent ACCF at one institution between January 2014 and December 2018. We collected date included age, gender, body mass index (BMI), disease type, surgical segment, whether merge ACDF, HU value of the vertebral body and endplate, vertebral body height loss, cervical lordosis angle, and cervical sagittal alignment. VAS, JOA, and NDI were used to assess clinical efficacy. Univariate analysis was performed to screen the influencing factors of TMC subsidence, and then logistic regression was used to find out the independent risk factors. The ROC curve and area under curve (AUC) were used to analyze the HU value to predict the TMC subsidence. **Results**: A total of 85 patients who accepted ACCF were included in this study, and early titanium mesh cage subsidence was demonstrated in 29 patients. The subsidence rate was 34.1%. The JOA, VAS, and NDI scores significantly improved in both groups after the operation. Between the subsidence and non-subsidence groups, there were significant differences in age, intervertebral distraction height, and HU value in both upper and lower vertebral body and endplate. The logistic regression analysis proved that the HU value of the lower vertebral body was an independent risk of TMC subsidence, the AUC was 0.866, and the most appropriate threshold of the HU value was 275 (sensitivity: 87.5%, specificity: 79.3%). **Conclusion**: Preoperative cervical CT value is an independent correlative factor for early TMC subsidence after ACCF, and patients with a low CT value of the inferior vertebral body of the operative segment have a higher risk of TMC subsidence in the early postoperative period. **Trial registration**: This study is undergoing retrospective registration.
**Keywords**: Anterior cervical corpectomy and fusion; Computed tomography; Hounsfield units; Subsidence; Titanium mesh cage. 
